Insurance basic

Indemnity- coompensation

claimant- 3rd party adminstrator

producer- who are authorised and independent to sell one or more insurances

underwriter- underwrite the risk; receipient of actuary's data
decides the premium amt.

actuary=who studies data of(risk facts/ cause of death); gives a risk score.

investigator/ adjuster/ surveyor- people who validate the claim.; survey reports r sent to insurance claim.

3rd party Vendor- ex, garage- tie up with insurance comp.

recovery specialists- who help is recovering claim.



Marketing / Business procurement- mkting to increase sales.
Rate Making- how to rate a customer to come up with a claim

Product Development life may have 30 products; constant operational work to avoid overselling of one product.

Underwriting - underwrite the risk
Claims Management- principle of indemnity; to validate the claim conditions.
Re-insurance - insuring the insurance itself. the company transfers the risk to another company= reinsurance
Policy Servicing - cancellation of policy/add stuff
Finance / Collection & Disbursement- disbursement of premium amt.
Distribution Channel Management- channels that distribute ins policies on behalf of Ins companies
Regulatory Compliance -IRDA in India; Accord in US. govt. bodies that what kind of investments that the ins companies r making.; it cannot be too risky.
They maintain a pool on safe side.

"Endorsement"- any change in the policy that the insured gets done is endorsement.






Subrogation - eg

Coverage / Benefit / Peril- coverage- add additional coverages.some may be mandatory. in US coliision cov is mandatory in auto.

Insured Object- house/ car/ life 

Exclusion- excluded things from base policy. ex. windshields in car. IRDA decides the one that can be excluded.
deductible-share the risk with ins comapany.. so that the premium amt goes down. there is a limit on deductible.

Underwriting-

Deductible  / Limits 

Co-pay - any kind of claim; co-pay, you may have to pay.

Co – Insurance -

Underinsurance-  when we dont insure .IRDA dictates a limit upto which u can insure. <limit is underinsurance.

Reserving - 

Legal adjustment reserving -




Quote Issuance- quote which is given by insu company.. nobody is obliged to it; it has a time limit to stay valid.

Policy Issuance-buying of policy.

Policy Administration- activities post policy is issued.
reinstate policy/ endorse.

Post Issuance

Claims Management- FNOL-first notice of loss

Re-insurance

Agency Management- employees of company, outside comp.. premium varies.



places where u can buy insurance-careers
icici lombard, tata AIG,


eligibility criteria- underwriting the process which a career runs.

coverage-


insured can select a limit.

deductibles/ coverage- but deductibles need to be configured.


quote- has premium only monthyly/ quateryly/ one time pay based.
bank details.
 quotes is acquired to compare and get the best policy.
 
 activated date/ expired date.
 
 eligibility question- precondition to decide on the policy.
 
 underwriting question- precondition to decide the premium.
 
 
 
 
 
 2. after purchasing plolicy-
 
 midterm Endorsement 
 eg. 
 - change the policy.
 -optional coverages may be taken off.
 - no coverage needed for next 6 months.
 
 At any point in change.. a question is asked and premium can up and down.
 
 Renewal-
 
 Cancellation-
  advance cancellation
  notice period
  anytime in the lifecycle
  
  
  reinstate the policy within the notice period of cancellation
  
  re-write the policy- getting a new policy.
  
  
  
  Billing/ payments-
  
  
 
 From Vikas--
 
 stock based/ mutual based companies-
 
 AAA mutual unit based org,
 
 
 
 
 salvage buyers-
 
 
 
 Industry Print- to capture the business processes
 

riders- enahnced policy wto cover expensive property.





split and spin

split policies

so these policies will be tagged to same account.











































